$8.6 BILLION IN BORDER WALL
FUNDING.
THIS AS THE SENATE PREPARES TO
VOTE THIS WEEK ON A RESOLUTION
BLOCKING THE PRESIDENT'S
DECLARATION OF A NATIONAL
EMERGENCY ON THE SOUTHERN BORDER
SOME REPUBLICAN LAWMAKERS
ALREADY SAYING THEY PLAN TO
BREAK RANK, AND VOTE WITH THE
DEMOCRATS, THEY ARE SUSAN
COLLINS OF MAINE, LISA MURKOWSKI
OF ARKANSAS, RAND PAUL OF
KENTUCKY, I'M SORRY, OF ALASKA
RATHER AND RAND PAUL OF KENTUCKY
AND THOM TILLIS OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
JOINING ME RIGHT NOW IN AN
EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW REPUBLICAN
SENATOR FROM WYOMING JOHN
BARRASSO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
SENATE REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE, HE
ALSO CHAIRS THE SENATE COMMITTEE
ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS AND A MEMBER OF THE SENATE
FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE AND
SENATOR IT'S GREAT TO HAVE YOU
ON THE PROGRAM.
THE VOTE IS THIS THURSDAY, HOW
ARE YOU GOING TO VOTE?
>> I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THE
PRESIDENT I THINK THE PRESIDENT
IS ABSOLUTELY RIGHT ON DECLARING
THE EMERGENCY HERE, AND THERE IS
AN EMERGENCY AT THE SOUTHERN
BORDER TODAY, 130 AMERICANS WILL
DIE OF DRUG OVERDOSES IN THE
UNITED STATES.
SO MUCH OF THAT IS COMING IN
FROM MEXICO, WE HAVE A SECURITY
ISSUE AND ALSO A HUMANITARIAN
ISSUE I WANT THE PRESIDENT TO BE
ABLE TO ACCOMPLISH THE THINGS
THAT HE HAS PROMISED THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
MARIA: WHY ARE SO MANY OF YOUR
REPUBLICANS NOT STANDING WITH
THE PRESIDENT YOUR REPUBLICAN
COLLEAGUES?
>> WELL ALL OF US ARE UNITED
THAT WE NEED TO DO THINGS IN
TERMS OF BORDER SECURITY IN
TERMS OF A BARRIER, IN TERMS OF
TECHNOLOGY, MANPOWER SOME WOULD
RATHER HE NOT USE THE EMERGENCY
POWERS THAT ARE GRANTED TO ALL
PRESIDENTS THEY WOULD RATHER
THIS GO THROUGH THE
APPROPRIATIONS PROCESS.
WELL, I AGREE WITH THAT APPROACH
BUT WE HAVE DEMOCRATS WHO HAVE
IN THE PAST VOTED FOR BORDER
SECURITY, FOR HUNDREDS AND
HUNDREDS OF MILES OF BARRIER WHO
NOW CALL IT IMMORAL AND ARE
CALLING FOR TEARING DOWN THE
WALL.
PRESIDENT OBAMA, PRESIDENT
CLINTON SAID WE HAD TO DO MORE
AT THE SOUTHERN BORDER.
NOW, THOSE DEMOCRATS ARE HEADING
THE OTHER WAY, SOME OF THEM EVEN
WANT TO ELIMINATE THIS
IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS
ENFORCEMENT.
MARIA: LIKE BY THE WAY
ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ KEEPS
SAYING THAT LOOK WE OFTEN SHOW
THIS PICTURE OF THE WALL THAT
SEPARATES SAN DIEGO AND TIJUANA.
THIS IS A WALL IN NANCY PELOSI'S
STATE.
SHE'S NEVER ASKED ABOUT THE IDEA
THAT, YOU KNOW, SHE KEEPS
CALLING WALL IMMORAL AND YET
THERE'S A WALL IN HER OWN STATE
WHICH OBVIOUSLY IS WORKING.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND PLAYING
POLITICS WITH THIS ISSUE.
IS THIS ALL ABOUT THE PRESIDENT
GETTING HIS, YOU KNOW, CAMPAIGN
PROMISE DELIVERED, KNOWING WHAT
THE FACTS ARE IN TERMS OF THE
HUMAN TRAFFICKING, THE DRUGS, ET
CETERA?
>> WELL I THINK THE DAY THAT
DONALD TRUMP WAS ELECTED
PRESIDENT DEMOCRATS STILL
COULDN'T BELIEVE" AND THEY SAID
WE'RE GOING TO DO EVERYTHING WE
CAN TO STOP HIM FROM
ACCOMPLISHING ANYTHING WHETHER
IT'S GOOD OR BAD FOR AMERICA.
THAT DOES SEEM TO BE THE WAY
THEY'VE HEADED CERTAINLY WITH
BORDER SECURITY BECAUSE THEY
HAVE FLIP FLOPPED THEY'RE NOW
AGAINST SOMETHING THEY'VE BEEN
FOR AND VOTED FOR, IN THE PAST,
AND THAT TO ME, IS THE MOST
DISTURBING NATURE OF ALL OF THIS
, BECAUSE WE NEED THE BORDER
SECURITY.
I JUST MET THIS OTHER DAY THE
OTHER DAY WITH THE SECRETARY OF
HOMELAND SECURITY, AND WE'RE ON
A PATH TO HAVING A MILLION, A
MILLION PEOPLE STOPPED AT THE
BORDER TRYING TO COME INTO THE
COUNTRY AND MANY GET HERE
ILLEGALLY.
WE'VE ALSO WEAPONIZED THE LAWS
IN THE UNITED STATES WHEREAS
WITH HUMAN TRAFFICKING IF THEY
BRING A CHILD AND CALL
THEMSELVES A FAMILY UNIT, THEN
THEY SAY THEY CAN ONLY BE HELD
20 DAYS THAT'S WHAT THE LAW IS
RELEASED INTO THE UNITED STATES,
AND THEY DON'T COME BACK FOR A
HEARING AND THEY STAY FOREVER SO
OUR LAWS ARE BEING USED AGAINST
US AND THE SYSTEM IS BROKEN.
MARIA: OKAY SO THE SENATE VOTE
ON THURSDAY, THEY ONLY NEED FOUR
REPUBLICANS TO GET IN WITH THEM.
THE DEMOCRATS, SO THAT IT WILL
PASS, AND THEN IT HEADS TO THE
PRESIDENT'S DESK HE SAID HE WILL
VETO IT.
IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE EXPECTING
AND HOW THIS PLAYS OUT?
>> I'M MEETING A COUPLE OF
TIMES THIS WEEK WITH THE
PRESIDENT HE'S GOING TO VETO
THIS AND THEN HIS VETO WILL BE
SUSTAINED THEY WILL NOT BE ABLE
TO OVERRIDE THE VETO OF THE
PRESIDENT.
MARIA: YOU DON'T THINK THERE
WILL BE ANY CHANCE THEY WILL BE
ABLE TO OVERRIDE IT?
>> NO.
MARIA: LET ME ASK YOU ABOUT THE
BUDGET NUMBERS BECAUSE ALL OF
THIS EVEN THOSE WHO ACCEPT THE
IDEA THAT THIS IS A CRISIS RIGHT
NOW ARE DEBATING THE AMOUNT OF
MONEY ALLOCATED TO THE WALL, TO
DEFENSE IN GENERAL, THE BUDGET
OF COURSE IS GOING TO BE
UNVEILED TOMORROW.
HOW DOES HE ARRIVE AT
$8.6 BILLION?
>> WELL HE'S ASKED THE EXPERTS
WHERE SHOULD WE BE PUTTING OUR
BEST EFFORTS AND THEY'VE COME UP
WITH 10 SPECIFIC LOCATIONS ALONG
THE BORDER AND SAID THESE ARE
THE SPOTS WHERE IF WE COULD PUT
BARRIERS IT WOULD MAKE MAKE A
FUNDAMENTAL SIGNIFICANT
DIFFERENCE IN PROTECTING THE
BORDER, THE BORDER IS ABOUT
2,000 MILES AND SO THE PRESIDENT
'S NOT ASKING FOR THE
FULL 2,000 MILES HE'S SAYING
GIVE US THOSE 10 LOCATIONS THAT
THE EXPERTS SAY ARE THE KEY
LOCATIONS, THAT'S WHERE HE'S
GETTING HIS NUMBERS.
MARIA: YEAH BECAUSE THERE ARE
SOME AREAS THAT MAY NOT NEED A
WALL AND THE PRESIDENT HAS SAID
THAT.
>> YES.
YES, THERE ARE PLACES WHERE
MANPOWER WORKS SOME PLACES BEST
WITH TECHNOLOGY AND SOME PLACES
A PHYSICAL BARRIER IS KEY IT'S
CRITICAL THAT'S WHAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTS THE MONEY FOR.
MARIA: HOW IS THIS GOING TO PLAY
OUT GIVEN THE WORRIES OVER
$22 TRILLION IN DEBT THE COUNTRY
IS FACING RIGHT NOW.
YOU'VE GOT THE DEBT CEILING
DEBATE COMING UP AS WELL.
>> WELL, THE DEMOCRATS ARE
GOING TO CONTINUE, I BELIEVE TO
BLOCK ANYTHING THE PRESIDENT
WANTS TO ACCOMPLISH AND THE
PRESIDENT HAS DONE WONDERFUL
THINGS FOR THE COUNTRY IN TERMS
OF THE ECONOMY, IN TERMS OF
REGULATORY REFORM, TAX RELIEF,
TWO JUDGES ON THE SUPREME COURT,
I'M REALLY PROUD OF THE RECORD
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS BUT THE
DEMOCRATS JUST CONTINUE TO HAVE
TAKEN THIS HARD LEFT TURN KIND
OF HEADING OFF THE CLIFF,
SO-CALLED GREEN NEW DEAL IS A
PART OF IT BUT ALSO, WITH BORDER
SECURITY IS A BIG BIG ISSUE.
MARIA: YEAH, BORDER SECURITY
WASN'T ALWAYS A BIG ISSUE FOR
THEM.
THEY ALL SAY THAT THEY ARE FOR
BORDER SECURITY AND THEY WANT
MORE TECHNOLOGY AND MORE
MANPOWER THEY JUST DON'T LIKE
THE IDEA OF A WALL.
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 700
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70M
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70L
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70S
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70A
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70D
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70T
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70E
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70N
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70Y
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70P
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70L
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70S
THEY WERE GOOD FOR THE FIRST 70I
CALLS IT A 701ST-MILE, IMMORAL.
MARIA: YEAH, RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT MET ME ASK YOU ABOUT
THE BROADER SET OF ISSUES HERE
WE'VE GOT THIS SOUTH BY
SOUTHWEST CONFERENCE GOING ON
AND ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ IS
DEFENDING PER POSITION ON THE
GREEN NEW DEAL BASICALLY SAYING
WHAT'S SUCH A BIG DEAL ABOUT
GOING FROM 10% BETTER THAN
GARBAGE.
I MEAN, SHE ACTUALLY CALLED THE
U.S. POLICIES RIGHT NOW GARBAGE.
HOW DO YOU REACT TO THAT?
>> WELL THIS NEW DEAL IT'S A
CRAZY NEW DEAL.
IT'S A BAD DEAL.
I'D TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT THEY
PROPOSED WHAT SHE HAS INTRODUCED
AND 11 MEMBERS OF THE SENATE
HAVE IS WHAT'S THE COST, WHAT
ARE THE CONSEQUENCES AND WILL IT
WORK?
WELL THE COST IS STAGGERING,
ASTRONOMICAL.
$93 TRILLION.
THAT WOULD EMPTY EVERYONE'S BANK
ACCOUNT IN AMERICA FROM WARREN
BUFFETT ALL THE WAY ON DOWN, SO
THE COUNTRY CANNOT AFFORD IT.
INDIVIDUALLY, THE CONSEQUENCES
ARE PEOPLE ARE GOING TO LOSE
THEIR JOBS AND IT'S GOING TO BE
ABOUT $65,000 PER FAMILY PER
YEAR PLUS HIGHER ENERGY COSTS,
HIGHER HEATING COSTS.
THEY WANT TO GET RID OF
AIRPLANES, ANYBODY THAT WORKS IN
AN AIRLINE INDUSTRY THEY'RE
GOING TO BE OUT OF WORK.
THE ENERGY INDUSTRY OUT OF WORK
AND WHAT ABOUT THE AIR FORCE?
YOU GET RID OF AIRPLANES,
VLADIMIR PUTIN IS NOT GOING TO
GET RID OF HIS AIR FORCE JUST IF
WE GET RID OF OURS AND THE
QUESTION OF WILL IT WORK, MARIA,
IT WILL NOT WORK.
WE CANNOT ALLOW IT.
MARIA: I WANT TO REITERATE YOUR
KNOWLEDGE BASE COMING AT THIS,
BECAUSE YOU'RE THE CHAIRMAN OF
THE COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND
PUBLIC WORKS.
YOU ARE AN AUTHOR IT TATE EVER
VOICE ON KNOCKING DOWN THIS DEAL
IN THIS CAPACITY AND URLS A
BOARD-CERTIFIED ORTHOPAEDIC
SURGEON IN PRIVATE PRACTICE FOR
24 YEARS SO YOU HAVE REAL
OPINIONS IN TERMS OF MEDICARE
AND MEDICAID.
WHY WON'T IT WORK?
EXPLAIN TO OUR VIEWERS, BASED ON
YOUR KNOWLEDGE BASE.
>> WELL, RIGHT NOW, IN TERMS OF
EMISSIONS, GLOBAL EMISSIONS AND
A GLOBAL ISSUE THE UNITED STATES
PUTS FORTH ONLY 13% OF THOSE.
CHINA AND INDIA, 33%, SO YOU
CAN'T POWER THE COUNTRY ON WIND
TURBINES AND SOLAR PANELS ALONE.
THAT'S ONLY 8% OF OUR ENERGY, WE
JUST CANNOT ALLOW "OUR BODIES,
OURSELVES" TO FOLLOW THIS
CHICKEN LITTLE, SKY IS FALLING
APPROACH OF THESE SOCIALISTIC
DEMOCRATS LIKE OCASIO-CORTEZ AND
THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES ON
THE DEMOCRAT SIDE OF THE AISLE.
WE CANNOT FOLLOW THEM OVER THE
CLIFF.
IT IS GOING TO HURT JOBS, HURT
PEOPLE'S ABILITY TO PAY THEIR
MORTGAGE, HURT OUR ECONOMY, HURT
OUR NATION IN TERMS OF NATIONAL
SECURITY.
IF YOU WANT TO DO SOMETHING
ACTUALLY SOMETHING SIGNIFICANT
AND BIG THERE ARE SOME SOLUTIONS
TO THIS THAT I PROPOSE AND I'M
WORKING WITH PEOPLE ON A
BIPARTISAN WAY ON IT.
SURE WE NEED MORE RENEWABLE
ENERGY, BUT WE NEED CARBON
CAPTURES, SEQUESTRATION,
UTILIZING THE CARBON, MAKE IT A
VALUABLE PRODUCT.
WE PASSED PIECES OF LEGISLATION,
SIGNED INTO LAW, CALLED THE
FUTURE ACT AND WE HAD A HEARING
ON ANOTHER ONE YESTERDAY, ALL
RELATED TO LAST WEEK ALL RELATED
TO CARBON CAPTURE, AND THE OTHER
IS NUCLEAR POWER.
NEW AGE NUCLEAR POWER WHERE THE
REACT ORS ARE SMALLER, BETTER,
SAFER THAT'S ALL PART OF IT.
MARIA: I'M GLAD YOU MENTIONED
ALL OF THIS BECAUSE YOU'VE
WORKED WITH YOUR DEMOCRATIC
COLLEAGUES ON THIS, AND YOU'VE
RECOGNIZED CLIMATE CHANGE AS AN
ISSUE.
DO YOU THINK SHE JUST DOESN'T
UNDERSTAND THE ISSUES?
I MEAN, HOW IS IT POSSIBLE THAT
THE PARTY SEEMS TO BE BEING LED
BY HER AND HER IDEAS, THE WHOLE
CONVERSATION, THE DEBATE THAT
WE'RE HAVING IS BASED ON HER
IDEAS.
WHAT ARE YOUR COLLEAGUES ON THE
LEFT SAY ABOUT THIS?
>> WELL SOME ARE VERY CONCERNED
WITH THE POSITION THAT THE PARTY
HAS TAKEN AND THE PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES HAVE TAKEN.
I THINK NANCY PELOSI IS UNNERVED
BY THIS NEW GROUP OF DEMOCRATS
IN THE HOUSE, WHO ARE TRYING TO
TAKE THE ENTIRE PARTY AND ARE
SUCCEEDING IN TAKING THE PARTY
ON THIS SHARP LEFT HAND TURN
THAT'S GOING TO AS THE NEW YORK